{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 	This project looked into how physical measurements affect shooting (3P% and FT%) and defense (DBPM and STL%). My motivation for doing this project was because of observed trends and common beliefs, and I wanted to see if a player\'92s defense is in any way predictable, as defense is so hard to measure in the NBA. For example, smaller, thinner players typically seem to be better at shooting whereas broad-shouldered centers tending to be poor shooters; it's commonly said that players with bigger hands have a tougher time shooting; and players with alien wingspans, even just based on the eye test, always seem to have a knack for picking pockets and getting steals, such as THT, who pick-pocketed James Harden several times in the limited playing time he got in the 2020 NBA Playoffs against the Rockets.\
	I analyzed several different relationships: the effect of hand size (width) on 3 point shooting (3P), free throw shooting (FT), steal rate (STL), and defense (DBPM); the effect of wingspan:height ratio on STL and DBPM; and the effect of weight and height on shooting. \
	\
Hypotheses: \
hand size has a negative correlation with shooting, positive correlation with steals and defense (thinking of Kawhi). Wingspan:height has a positive correlation on STL and DBPM. Weight and height have a negative correlation on shooting, as heavier and bigger players tend to be worse shooters.\
	\
Procedure: \
I scraped data off of nba.com and downloaded data from basketball reference. I used SQL to get the necessary data and to analyze simple plots with the eye test before using Excel to find correlations.\
	\
Results: (correlation coefficients)\
	Hand width: -0.044 for 3P, -0.458 for FT, 0.222 for DBPM, -0.117 for STL\
	Wingspan:height: 0.315 for DBPM, 0.169 for STL\
	Weight: -0.12 for 3P, -0.44 for FT\
	Height: -0.08 for 3-, -0.52 fot FT\
\
Analysis: \
	Based on positive and negative correlations, I accept all of my hypotheses except for hand width on steal rate. However, many of the correlations were very close small in magnitude, meaning the correlation is pretty insignificant. The only relationships that had a moderate correlation were hand width, weight, and height on free throws, and somewhat wingspan:height on defense.\
	An interesting thing to note is that while hand width, weight, and height all had moderate correlations with free throw shooting, they had virtually no correlation at all with 3 point shooting. I believe this has to do with basketball reference only including \'93qualified\'94 players in the data tables, so the big, tall players with large hands who don\'92t take many 3s to begin with weren\'92t even in the table. Even if they were in the table, I\'92m fairly confident that their volume and shooting % would be low. However, these big men are often hacked and fouled when they have the basket, such as Dwight Howard, as opposing teams either can\'92t stop them or know that fouling is the right play because of their low shooting %, thus these big men actually \'93qualify\'94 and have sufficient free throw volume. \
	One outlier for the hand size to free throw shooting data is Kawhi Leonard. He has massive 11.25 in hands yet still shoots 88.6% from the free throw line. If you remove his data, the correlation actually goes from -0.458 to -0.556, a whole .1 difference. With this moderate correlation in mind, it makes sense that Anthony Davis, a big man, shoots so well, both from the field and from the free throw line. AD was an 85% free throw shooter in 2020, which is absurdly high for a big man. His hands, however, are also absurdly small. At just 8.5 inches, AD\'92s hands are small in general, even relative to smaller players, which is especially abnormal when compared to players his size. Seeing that there is indeed a correlation between hand size and free throws, it makes sense that AD\'92s shooting is excellent compared to other big men.\
	It also makes sense that height and weight had a moderate correlation with free throw shooting, because as mentioned earlier, bigger and taller players, like centers, tend to be worse at free throw shooting.\
	Wingspan:height ratio had a moderate-to-weak correlation with defense, at about .315. I wanted to do a ratio rather than wingspan or height alone, because I felt it was pretty intuitive that taller, longer players, such as Rudy Gobert, would be better on defense. The ratio, however, was more interesting. A shorter player with very long arms, like Rajon Rondo, is oftentimes a nuisance on defense, so I wanted to explore it further. There was not as strong of a correlation as I\'92d hoped, and I think this is most likely due to the fact that defense is very much effort-based, and is so hard to predict or measure. For example, Donte DiVincenzo had one of the smallest wingspan:height ratios, yet had the 4th highest DBPM, largely due to his effort and tenacity on defense. Another related factor is likely offensive load, which then contributes to decreased effort on the defensive end. For example, Donovan Mitchell had the 2nd highest wingspan:height ratio, but he had a negative DBPM last season, which could be attributed to the fact that Bojan and Conley were hurt a lot, so he had to carry the offense. Mitchell is certainly a capable defender when locked in, but having to carry a large offensive load likely affected his defense. Defense is also related to lateral quickness and IQ, both of which are very difficult if not impossible to deduce from statistics. \
	I was disappointed that there was not a strong correlation between wingspan:height ratio and steals, probably because of similar reasons as previously mentioned regarding defense, with it largely being effort-based. Hand size similarly also had very little, if any, correlation with defense and steals.\
\
Future: I only used shooting, steal rate, and defense data from the 2020 season. It\'92d be interesting to see how the data looks if I compare player measurements to other seasons, or even player\'92s career averages. I only went back 17 seasons as that\'92s pretty much all the active players. It would be interesting to explore older players with more historical data. I also want to do more analysis on player measurements, such as how they affect injury risk. It would also be interesting to see how changes in offensive load affect DBPM for individual players.}